Good afternoon and welcome to the
developer tools State of the Union.
Since Apple started shipping Mac OS X,
we have been building up a fantastic
set of tools for you guys to
develop innovative Mac applications.
And as all of you know,
with our upcoming Xcode 3.1 release,
we're going to extend that
same set of mature tools,
so that you can not only develop
applications for the Mac,
but also for the iPhone.
And boy, are we engineers here at
Apple excited about the iPhone SDK.
To be here from the beginning for the
creation of a new development platform,
to see the first applications from you
guys springing to life on these devices,
is really an opportunity of a lifetime,
and we've been working very hard on it.
In this session,
we're going to go over the
entire development process for
both the Mac and the iPhone.
And what you will see is that our tools
cover the entire development process,
from the creation of your projects,
to writing your code,
to optimizing them and getting
them ready for deployment.
Let me start out by giving you
a quick overview of the major
components of our tool suite.
At the center of your development
process is our primary IDE,
Xcode.
Xcode really is the hub of your
entire development experience.
It does everything you
need from a great IDE.
It is fast, it is scalable,
it is customizable, and it's easy to use.
Now for designing the user
interfaces of your applications,
you will use Interface Builder,
which is one of the tools
that really distinguishes our
development platform from others.
In Interface Builder,
you can quickly pull together UIs by
just dragging objects out of the library,
arranging them just the way you want,
and hooking them up to the
application logic you wrote in Xcode.
You can even test your interfaces right
from within Interface Builder without
building your projects in between,
which gives you truly
fantastic turnaround times.
Instruments is a fantastic performance
tool that is also unique in the industry.
It uses a gorgeous, very clear way of
visualizing performance data.
With Instruments,
you can look in great detail
into different aspects and the
different behaviors of your
applications at the same time,
which really allows you to
understand how different parts of
your application work together,
how they interact with each other,
and with the system.
Now, Xcode, Interface Builder,
and Instruments are used to
develop native applications for
both the Mac and the iPhone.
But we're also shipping a
tool that is dedicated to
the creation of Web 2.0 apps.
And it's called Dashcode.
In Xcode,
you create widgets for Mac OS X,
and going forward,
also full-featured iPhone web
applications that run directly in the
Safari web browser on your iPhones.
So Xcode is a full-featured web IDE.
It's very easy to use.
And it covers the entire process for
creating widgets and web applications,
including the deployment.
And these four applications
I just described to you are just
four of the many applications
that form our entire tool suite.
We ship tools to you that cover graphics,
automation, package building,
more performance tools,
and dedicated file comparison tools.
And this entire suite of applications
is included with every Mac.
The Apple developer tools are
free to every user of Mac OS X.
Now let's not just talk about them,
let's actually see them
live and in action.
And for our first demo of today,
I'd like to ask Todd Fernandez to
come up on stage and give you a demo
for how to build a Mac application.
Thank you, Andreas, and good afternoon,
developers.
I'm very pleased to be
here to show you how Xcode,
Interface Builder,
and Instruments can work together to help
you build great-looking Mac applications
with excellent performance,
while keeping your focus on your
application and not the tools.
To show you how, I'm going to build a
simple game called Baffle.
We'll see if some of
you may recognize it.
To get started,
I'm going to create a new Xcode project.
So I'll use Xcode's new
project chooser to get started.
And since the easiest way to create a
great Mac application is to use Cocoa,
I'm going to use the
Cocoa application template.
So I've created my
project on the desktop.
And let me give you a little
tour of the Xcode window.
I have my source editor
here on the right.
And on the left side,
the Groups and Files view shows
me the organization of my project,
my source code, my resources,
including my user interface file and
any artwork or sound I might need.
and the target,
which are the instructions that
Xcode uses to turn my source code and
resources into my built application.
So I'm going to cheat a little
bit and drag in some code
that I've already prepared,
and some resources, and some more code.
I have nothing up my sleeves, really.
So now I have the skeleton of my
application laid out in Xcode.
I want to edit my user interface
file in Interface Builder.
So here in Interface Builder,
I have the file view,
which contains all the objects that
I currently have in my user interface.
I have my main window,
which I'm going to make
a little bit bigger.
And I can use the inspector to rename
my window to match the name of my game.
I seem to be having
troubles with A's today.
and Interface Builder's library,
which contains dozens of objects,
different user interface elements
that make it really easy for me to
make a great-looking Mac application.
But more importantly,
Xcode and Interface Builder
work very closely together,
and Interface Builder now knows all
about those classes and resources
that I've already added to my project.
So if I switch to the
Media tab of the library,
I can easily access those resources,
including the background of my game.
So I'll go ahead and line
that up in my window,
and resize the window to match.
All right, well,
the next thing I need to do is lay
out the actual views of my game.
So I'm going to add two custom views.
One for my game board,
and if you look closely,
you'll see the blue guidelines
that Interface Builder provides
to help me conform to Apple's
human interface guidelines.
That looks about right.
And drag out a second one
for my scratchpad view.
Again,
using the guides to line things up and
maintain the right margins and spacing.
So those are the views I need,
but I also need a controller object
to keep everything tied together.
So I'm going to drag in.
An object.
And again, use the inspector,
but now I'm going to set
the identity of that class.
What class do I really want
that controller object to be?
And again, Interface Builder knows all
about the classes that I've
already added to my project.
So I can just get type completion,
For my game controller object,
and similarly for my two views,
my game board view and
my scratch pad view.
That's great.
I'm almost done laying
out my user interface,
but I still need a way
to start a new game.
So I'm going to add a toolbar.
And once again,
take advantage of the access to
the artwork that I've added to my
project to add some new toolbar items.
So as I drag each image--
Interface Builder is creating
a new toolbar item for me.
So now I have all the elements
in my user interface I need,
but I still need to wire them up so
I get the right behavior at runtime.
And Interface Builder makes it
really easy to connect each user
interface element to my source code,
which actually implements its behavior.
So I can just Control-drag from
my new game toolbar item down to
the game controller and connect
it up to my new game method,
which will create the new game.
And while I'm here,
I'll go ahead and configure
my default toolbar.
And then connect up my views.
That's our user interface.
So let's switch back to Xcode.
And one more item of
housekeeping I need to do,
I want to actually set the
icon for my application,
which I can use Xcode's inspector to do.
And again,
this was one of those shared resources
I dragged in at the beginning.
All right, well, let's go ahead and
build and run our game.
So Xcode compiles all of my
source files and copies all the
resources into the app bundle,
and--
Uh-oh.
You might notice down here in the bottom
that Xcode now has a scary red 1 badge.
I've got a build error in my project.
Fortunately for me, since I'm on stage,
Xcode makes it really easy
for me to get right to the
bug that's in my source code.
I can just do Command-Equals,
and Xcode takes me right
to the line of source.
And I can also hover over the gutter
here and focus in on just that block
of code to see what the problem is,
which Xcode makes even easier
by providing the actual text of
the error message in a message
bubble right there next to the
line of source with the problem,
where it's pretty easy to
see where the blame lies.
So let's use code completion to
fix the name of that variable,
and let's compile to make
sure we've fixed that.
So this is just a very quick
demonstration of how Xcode makes it
really easy for me to do the work
I need to do with my source code,
fix build errors, typos,
and others more difficult to track down.
What's also great is Xcode makes
it easy to do the work I want
to do with my source code.
For example,
Now that I'm looking at this method,
I really don't like that argument,
game controller.
It's so pedestrian.
I think we can do something a
little bit more interesting.
Perhaps something that would
be more interesting to my boss,
Andreas.
But one of the things about
making changes like that,
even in the small scope like this,
especially if your method is longer,
is you have to make sure you get every
instance and change them together,
or you'll break your application.
Well,
Xcode 3.1 has a great new feature called
Edit All in Scope that makes it trivial
to make these kinds of changes safely.
I can just click on one of them.
You can see they're indicated right away.
And then we can rename this.
Clearly a vast improvement to my program.
So yeah, I'd like to pause also.
I think many of you are like me.
We write code because we love to do it.
But when the tools make it fun,
it's even that much better.
So now that I'm in here and kind
of playing around with my code,
making it just the way I want
without breaking my application,
I want to get a higher
level view of my class.
So I'm going to go ahead and fold
all the methods in the class.
And when I do that,
I notice Scratchpad View.
I've never really thought that
was the right name for this class.
But changing the name of a
class is a much wider-ranging,
project-wide scope change
that I need to make.
And of course, if I want to change it,
I want to do so without
breaking my application.
Well, Xcode makes that easy, too,
by supporting refactoring.
So I'm going to refactor that class.
Bring up the refactoring window where
I can see that I have a number of
different types of refactorings I can do,
but I want to rename.
And I think that really
should be score pad view.
So when I preview,
Xcode analyzes all of the source and
resources in my project and finds all the
instances of references to that class.
and then presents me with
a handy before and after,
which I can quickly scan through to make
sure that these are the changes I want.
And in fact, if you'll notice,
not only did Xcode find the
references to this class in my class's
declaration and implementation,
as you'd expect,
including changing the names
of those source files to match,
it also found the reference to that
class in my user interface file,
again, making it very easy for you to be
playful and experimental with your
code without breaking your application.
So I'll go ahead and apply
those changes to my program,
and let's see if we're a little more
successful building and running.
So here,
I again want to pause and point out
to some of you who may not have seen
a game like this before that I need
to connect the letters in various
ways to spell words and score points.
Now, you may think that I'm doing
this demo for all of you,
but in fact, this is just part of a
very serious competition.
So please, no help from the audience.
So I'll start a new game,
and an important part of this game
is you must shake up the board very
well to distribute the letters.
And let's see what we can find.
I like this board.
All right, 18.
OK, I guess I'm relatively
satisfied with that.
We'll see how that does
in the competition later.
And that was a lot of fun,
and I'm sure fun for
you to watch me play.
So we're done, right?
We're ready to ship our game, baffle?
Well, of course not.
We need to optimize it and
make sure it's making the best
use of the system resources,
from memory to CPU to the file system.
And to do that, we have a great tool,
Instruments.
So I'm going to quit my application,
return to Xcode,
and point out that I've just
been running my application,
which I could do again from the Run menu,
but I can also choose to
start with Performance Tool.
And there are a number of different
Instruments templates that I can
choose to analyze different
aspects of my program's behavior.
Right now,
what I would like to do is analyze it
to find any memory leaks to fix those.
So when I choose the Leaks template,
Instruments will launch my application
again and begin gathering data
about the object allocations.
So we can start a new
game and shake it out.
It looks like we've got a leak already.
That's trouble.
So let's see what I've got here.
Feeling very logical right now.
And don't worry,
I won't keep playing this forever.
So I think that's enough data.
So I can stop recording,
my program quits, and now I can analyze
the data in Instruments.
And you can now see
that on the left side,
you can have as many instruments as you
want to gather different types of data.
Instruments library has dozens.
And then along to the right,
each instrument captures
data along the timeline,
allowing you to very easily visually
correlate how different events affect
your programs and the system's behavior.
Right now, what I want to do is focus
in on this leak peak.
And we can see down
here in the detail view,
each block that was leaked.
And I can further explore,
see what exactly has happened there,
and get the malloc history.
Furthermore,
I can actually get a stack trace for
that allocation and look through to
see if any of my code is involved
in that block being allocated where
I might be able to fix a leak.
And sure enough,
down here I see BG Sandglass View,
which is the class
that handles the timer.
And if I double-click
on that stack frame,
Instruments sends me right back
to that line of source in Xcode,
again, making it very easy for me to see
that now I've unfortunately made a
common error in Cocoa programming,
where I've copied an object
but failed to auto-release it.
So I will fix that bug.
Again, using code completion.
And let's build and go again.
Xcode is smart enough to know
that since the previous run,
I ran with the leaks template,
it ran with the leaks template again.
So I can easily compare before and
after I made that source change.
I promise this is the last time
I'll play the game for you.
So we can see it looks
like we fixed our leak.
Excellent.
Yes, thank you.
I do accept applause.
But even more,
Instruments makes it really easy
for me to compare one run against
another to see how the behavior
of my application changed once
I made that change in my source.
So this has been a quick demonstration
of how our developer tools can
help you build great-looking,
well-optimized applications for your Mac.
Thanks very much.
Thank you, Todd.
So I think this is a great
demo because it really shows
how well these three tools,
Xcode, Interface Builder,
and Instruments, are integrated and work
together to create a really
great experience for you guys.
Our tools use a very mature foundation
that we've built up over nearly
a decade of shipping Macros 10,
and they also use a unique approach
to the development process that
really make our tools stand out.
Let me explain that a little bit more,
starting with our source editor.
The source editor is probably the
part of the developer tools where
you will spend most of your time,
and so we in turn spend a
lot of time every release to
making it better and better.
We really put your code at center stage.
Xcode does everything you would
expect from a great source editor.
For example, it has code completion that
knows everything about the
Cocoa and Cocoa Touch APIs.
It also has conveniences
like code folding.
And the editor hooks right
into the refactoring engine,
which really is a huge
productivity feature.
Refactoring allows you to make
large-scale structural changes,
like renaming a class,
to your entire project at once
in an assisted and safe way.
Now, as I said,
we really believe that your code
deserves to be at center stage.
And so instead of creating workflows
that take you away from the source code,
or workflows that minimize the
amount of screen real estate
you can allocate to your editor,
we bring the right information
to you inside the editor.
As you saw in the demo,
when you get bit errors and warnings,
we will show them to you in the
form of message bubbles right
in the source code next to the
line that they actually occurred.
You also bring the debugging
experience into the editor.
When we start debugging,
we roll down the debugger
strip at the top of the editor,
which contains all the essential
controls that you need for most
of the common debugging tasks,
like stepping and
looking at stack traces.
And also while debugging,
you can simply hover with your
mouse over a variable or data
structure to get what we call a data
tip that shows you their values.
You can drill down deeply
into the data structures,
and you can even edit the values
in the data tips without ever
leaving the context of your editor.
So these center stage features
really mean that you can
focus on your source code.
You can really allocate a lot of space on
the screen to your editor and not clutter
the screen with additional views in
Windows just to see some auxiliary data.
So Xcode is a great source editor,
and Interface Builder
is a great UI editor.
What really makes Interface Builder
stand out is that it manipulates real
objects instead of generating code.
Avoiding code generation means that
your source stays a lot cleaner,
and it also means that you can
test your interfaces right from
within Interface Builder without
building your projects in between.
Gives you great prototyping experience
and very rapid turnaround times.
Now, Interface Builder works
very closely with Xcode,
and it accesses the
same class information.
So if you go into Xcode
and you add a class,
a method, or a variable,
they would show up immediately
in the design tool as well.
So you can hook up your UI elements to
the application logic you just wrote.
Now,
one of the primary reasons why we're able
to implement a great tool like Interface
Builder is that we chose Objective-C as
our programming language for both the
Cocoa and the Cocoa Touch frameworks.
Objective-C really is the engine behind
Apple's frameworks and applications.
Objective-C is one of the reasons
why we can very quickly ship new
releases of Mac OS X and the iPhone OS.
The highly dynamic nature of
the Objective-C language is
what enables Interface Builder
to work with live objects,
and to have those same objects be loaded
at runtime into your applications,
but they get stitched together
with your compiled code.
Recently in Leopard,
we've begun to aggressively
evolve the Objective-C language.
We added mechanisms and
constructs that allow you to
read and write code more easily,
to actually use fewer lines of code,
And at the same time, benefit from faster
execution time and runtime.
So Objective-C2 really was a giant
step forward to modernize the language.
And most importantly,
we added Garbage Collection.
In addition to Garbage Collection,
we implemented a number of
features with a special focus
on performance and robustness.
We're going to continue this trend
with Objective-C2.1 and Snow Leopard.
On top of the--
So on top of the lightweight
blocks construct that Bertrand
already introduced you to
in the previous session,
which will be very helpful
when you're tackling mighty
core problems going forward.
We're again adding a number of features
with a special focus on performance,
like faster method dispatch and faster
startup times for your applications.
All the Objective-C code
you write will end up in a
compiler at some point in time.
And with Xcode 3.1,
we have some fantastic
news in this space as well.
Because in Xcode 3.1,
you get the choice of
multiple great compilers.
Our current default compiler for both
Leopard and the iPhone OS is GCC 4.0.
And in Snow Leopard,
we're going to replace
it with a newer version,
GCC 4.2.
But we're already making 4.2
available to you now so that you can
get ready for a smooth transition.
The focus of GCC 4.2 is performance.
It adds support for OpenMP and
also implements a long list of
new optimizations and improvements
to the auto vectorization engine.
The detailed feature set of GCC 4.2
is flying by here in the background.
And if you actually know
what any of that means,
then you know how great
the feature set of 4.2 is.
And if not, that's fine.
It does a lot of geeky stuff
that is very good for you.
So also in Xcode 3.1,
we're going to add a brand new
compiler technology that we've been
working on for a number of years.
And it's called LLVM, which stands for--
So LLVM stands for
low-level virtual machine,
and the reason why we've been
investing into it is speed.
LLVM has a very modern,
very modular code base that allows
us to innovate very quickly.
It allows us to make changes
very swiftly to the compiler,
much more than we've been able
to do with traditional compilers.
So the advantages of LLVM are
that it compiles code faster,
that it generates code that runs faster,
and it can apply strong
optimizations across multiple files.
So let's take a look at some numbers.
This graph shows a build time
comparison between LLVM and GCC for a
number of select projects in Mac OS X.
What you can see from this graph is that
already in this first release of LLVM,
we're achieving build time
improvements between 20% and 40%.
And not only do we compile
the code a lot faster,
LLVM also runs the code faster.
To test LLVM, just--
We ran a few benchmarks of
some performance-sensitive
areas that we know in Mac OS X.
In one case,
we measured the number of frames
per second for video playback.
In the other case,
we measured the number of
signing operations that
OpenSSA can perform per second.
And what we found is that
LLVM runs the same source,
in one case 15,
in the other case 25% faster.
So gains like this,
15 to 25%, are very hard
to achieve with a compiler.
So I really think it speaks
for the potential of LLVM,
the high quality of
code that it generates.
Now these numbers look very promising,
but one thing that's important
to notice is that LLVM is still
an early adopter technology.
LLVM simply has not seen the huge
masses of code that GCC has compiled
over the last several decades.
And so the optimizations we
implemented in LLVM might not apply
evenly to all areas of your code.
It's likely that you will see different
results with different kind of projects.
And so while we very highly
encourage you to try out LLVM,
just notice that mileage may vary.
We already used GCC 4.2 to
build all of Snow Leopard today.
So GCC 4.2 is definitely
ready for you to be used.
And most of your projects will
make the transition to GCC 4.2 very
soon when Snow Leopard comes along.
So once your projects
have made this transition,
it's very easy for you
to try out LLVM as well.
We've made it exceptionally easy for you.
If you look at an architecture
diagram for a compiler,
We typically distinguish between
what we call the front end,
which is pretty much the pass of the
compiler that reads in your source code,
and the back end that contains
different code generators for all the
architectures that you're developing for.
And what we are doing in Xcode
3.1 is that we are simply sliding
in LLVM as an alternative back
end behind the GCC 4.2 front end.
So we are reusing the
parser of GCC 4.2 with LLVM.
And that, of course,
means for you that LLVM is fully
source code compatible with GCC.
And of course,
the code we generated with LLVM
There's also fully binary compatible.
So if you have code that is
fully source code and binary
compatible between LLVM and GCC,
you can very easily try out LLVM and
actually mix and match different
pieces of code that are compiled
with the two different back ends.
So we've been working quite hard
on LLVM the last several years,
but so have many other
engineers outside of Apple,
because LLVM is open source.
And you find the community
website here at llvm.org.
And so we regularly contribute our
version of the compiler to the community,
but we would very much
appreciate your help as well.
In fact,
I believe that LLVM is a tremendous
opportunity for you as the
Apple developer community to really
shape the future of our compiler
technologies and to make the compiler
exactly into what you want it to be.
If you go and visit this website,
you will also find that we've
begun work on another project,
which we call Clang.
Clang is intended to be our future
LLVM front-end for C languages,
for C, Objective-C, and C++.
And Clang is going to open the
door to a bright future for us.
Clang is designed from the ground
up to be extremely lightweight and
to run inside the Xcode application.
And not only will that give us
dramatically improved compile times,
it will also allow us to
create a brand new light-speed
indexing and refactoring engine.
So the compilers in
Xcode 3.1 are GCC 4.0,
GCC 4.2, and LLVM.
And all of them are, of course,
driven by the Xcode Build System,
which has proven to be
very flexible and scalable.
But if you want to build a
small project like TextEdit,
your own suite of applications,
or an entire OS like
Mac OS X or the iPhone OS,
the Xcode Build System will
stitch them together just fine.
It is really designed to make
great use of modern hardware,
most importantly,
multiple processor cores.
This graph shows you how build time
decreases with the number of processor
cores you have available in your machine.
So as you can see,
we make great use of every core there is,
and it usually pays off nicely
to get your boss to buy you
this fully loaded Mac Pro.
Here's a different view at build time.
This graph shows how build time
has decreased over the last
several years when measured on the
latest and greatest version of the
hardware and the OS and the tools.
So through a combination of improvements
to the hardware and the software,
we've been able to decrease
build time by a factor of 15.
We've literally gone from hours
of compile time to minutes.
Now, these graphs illustrate another very
important point that I'd like to make,
and that is that well-performing
applications need to make best use of
modern hardware and OS capabilities.
What that means for you is
dealing with multiple threats
and multiple processor cores.
It means also to reach low
power consumption goals,
and it means to interact very carefully
with the more and more processes
running in a modern OS nowadays.
There are many new and
exciting capabilities that new
OSes and new hardware have,
but you as developers
need to be aware of them,
and you need to do your
part in playing nice.
So it's not good enough
anymore to just measure the raw
CPU performance of your own process
when you're analyzing performance.
You really need to take a holistic
approach to the entire performance
picture in the entire system.
And that's precisely why
we created Instruments.
Instruments allows you to
combine multiple different types
of data sources together and
really monitor multiple aspects,
multiple types of behaviors in
your applications at the same time.
You can look at CPU usage, graphics,
memory, network, file system activity,
and there are even instruments
that are specific to individual
frameworks like Core Data.
The most unique feature of
Instruments is that it uses a great,
very intuitive, garage-band-like UI.
It uses a timeline view that
allows you to visually correlate
the different events and to find
dependencies and interactions between
subsystems in your applications
that would otherwise be hidden if
you would measure them individually.
And Instruments gets
complemented by another fantastic
performance tool that we have,
which is called Shark.
Shark is a very powerful profiling tool.
It is great at taking
CPU samples with a very,
very low overhead,
which makes it ideal for
fine-grained performance analysis.
And you can run both Instruments
and Shark against the production
versions of your applications.
There's no need to rebuild your
projects with special build settings,
no need to link in special libraries
just to enable the performance tool.
They work against any
version of your program.
They're very easy to
apply against your code,
and you will be surprised what they can
show you once you start running them.
So that was a quick
tour through our tools.
And I hope it became clear that just
like the consumer product space,
the users benefit tremendously
from Apple being the single
source that delivers the
entire experience of hardware,
software, and services.
You, the developer community,
benefit tremendously from us being
the single source that delivers
the entire development experience.
Our tools, our frameworks,
our programming languages,
and our hardware work together
very closely to deliver a
truly outstanding experience.
Now we've taken everything
we've learned with the Mac about
being a great platform company,
and we applied it to our new platform,
the iPhone OS.
The iPhone SDK comes loaded with a ton
of iPhone-specific tools extensions
that get activated when you choose the
iPhone SDK for one of your projects.
Those of you that have developed
Mac applications in the past are
already familiar with the term SDK.
Using an SDK means that you're using
the latest version of the OS and
the latest version of the tools,
but you're targeting the behaviors and
APIs of a different version of Mac OS X.
So an SDK essentially is a snapshot
of headers and libraries of a
different version of Mac OS X.
And with Xcode 3.1, you've extended the
meaning of what an SDK is.
And now if you select the iPhone OS,
you not only select a set
of headers and libraries,
but also a completely
parallel low-level tool chain.
So the iPhone SDK comes
with an iPhone OS,
comes with a set of ARM build tools,
ARM is the processor used on the iPhone,
comes with a simulator application,
and it comes with a number of other
utilities that actually really make
it fun to develop for the iPhone.
So let's show that to you, too.
For our second demo,
I'd like to ask Matt Furtick to
come up on stage and show us how
to build an iPhone application.
Thank you, Andreas.
One of the most amazing and exciting
things about developing with
Apple technologies is the fact that
skills and techniques you learn for one
platform translate directly to the other,
because of the commonality of the system,
the frameworks, and the underlying tools.
So just a show of hands,
how many people are actually here
to build an iPhone application?
That's pretty much everyone.
That's going to be a really
big application store.
So many of you may be sitting
in the audience wondering,
all right,
how do I take my application and
build a version for the iPhone?
And to demonstrate how easy that is,
what we're going to do is
take the game that Todd built,
and we're going to build
a version for the phone.
So let's build Baffle Touch.
So I'll go to my machine here,
and we'll bring up Xcode,
and we will create a new project.
But this time, I'm going to pick from one
of the iPhone OS templates.
We'll choose this one,
and we'll call it Baffle Touch.
I also have problems
with the letter A and O.
So we'll save that to the desktop.
Now you'll see that the project
looks pretty much the same as
it did for our Cocoa project.
And in fact,
I'm going to use some of the elements
that Todd used to start with.
So because the shared code,
because the core of our application
is written in just pure Objective-C,
I can use that in my
Cocoa Touch application.
And the same thing is true
for the shared resources.
So we'll drag in the shared code,
and we'll drag in those
same images and audio files.
But instead of using the
Cocoa views that Todd built,
I'm going to use the
Cocoa Touch views that I built
to put together our interface.
So there we go.
Our project is all set up.
Let's design our interface.
So I'll open the main window
here in Interface Builder,
and we'll hide Xcode to make
that a little more visible.
And you'll see that now we're
back in Interface Builder.
And it may look pretty much
the same as it did for Cocoa.
The important element to note
is that on the left here,
the library is now full
of Cocoa Touch views.
These are views that we can use
to design our iPhone applications.
We have access to all the same media
that we used for our other game.
In this case,
we're going to use a slightly
different background image,
because you'll note that the
iPhone window here is a little
bit smaller than a Cocoa window.
So we'll drag that in,
place it where we want,
and now we'll design the
rest of our interface.
Now, for the iPhone version
of this application,
we used subclasses of image views
rather than just regular views.
So what this means is I can actually
use images to lay out my interface.
So I'll drag in the same
board view that Todd did.
We'll put that down.
I'll drag out the same image
Todd used for the scratch pad.
You'll note that it's much bigger than
I want for my particular interface here,
but Interface Builder lets me resize that
down and put it exactly where I want.
So now we've got our two main views.
We want to put in a toolbar.
Now, for Cocoa Touch,
the toolbars go at the
bottom instead of the top.
I'm going to use one of the
features of Interface Builder,
which is the ability to design
views and put them back in
the library for use later.
So I can just drag out my pre-configured
toolbar and just drop that in place.
So now I have the basics of my interface.
Like Todd,
we're going to put in a game controller.
This is the core application logic.
We'll drop that into our document here.
And we need to set the custom class so
that it is one of our game controllers.
So now what I need to do is set
the custom classes of my interface.
We do that in the same way that Todd did.
I'll select each view.
So this becomes my game board view.
This becomes my scratch pad view.
And we're actually going to put
in a custom toolbar as well.
So now I just need to connect stuff up.
We'll connect the game board
to the game controller so that
we know how to get our pieces,
connect our scratchpad view,
the name which I don't mind,
up to our game controller so that
we can get our words and our score.
We're also going to connect up our
toolbar to our game controller so that
we can move the toolbar out of the way,
since we're dealing with
a smaller geometry here.
And we'll also connect up one
of the buttons in our toolbar
to make sure that we can build
a new game or run a new game.
So there we go.
We've designed our interface.
Let's go back to Xcode and take
a look and see how it works.
So here we are back in Xcode,
and I want to test my application.
Now I have two options to do this.
I can use the simulator,
or I can use the phone.
To pick between those two,
we would use the overview pop-up
here in the upper left of the window.
You can see it's already
set on simulator,
so I will just build and go with that.
So Xcode's going to compile
my application and launch it.
And here we are.
Here's my game in the simulator.
Don't worry, the views actually come in
when we click the New button.
So there it is.
And of course, we do the same thing.
We'll shake up our game
and just start to play.
Now, unlike Todd, I think we're in this
presentation together.
So if you see any large words,
feel free to shout them out.
Anything long, like rhinoceros,
or anything particularly large.
But you can see,
now we're going to use the
Cocoa Touch interface and
just start to play our game.
And we can start to build more and
more into our application using
both Xcode and the simulator.
Now, as part of the development process,
I happen to know that there is
a bug in this code somewhere
that I want to root out.
And you may be asking me,
how do I know that?
Well, as Todd and I have been working on
these demos and putting stuff together,
we've been comparing notes.
And by and large,
Todd's scores are better than mine.
Clearly a bug.
So, we'll go into our source code here.
We'll go into the core game
controller by selecting it
in the Groups and Files view.
And I'm going to look
for a particular method.
In this case, the one I'm looking for
is Advanced Progress.
This is a method that gets
fired as the game is running,
as the hourglass kind of goes
down and keeps track of things.
So, our game is still
running in the simulator.
I'm going to take a look at some
debugging information by just clicking in
the gutter here and setting a breakpoint.
So, you can see the little blue
chevron here appears in my code.
We'll now go back into the
simulator and click New,
start to play our game.
And you'll note that as
the game starts to run,
we instantly hit our breakpoint.
So, now I can start looking at
some information about my app.
I could hover over any of the
instance variables and start
to use the debugging tool tips.
And here's the information about my game.
Now I can go and use the debugging
strip up here at the top of the
editor to advance and click continue,
and you'll note that my
breakpoint gets hit again.
Well,
it's because the game keeps advancing.
This is going to make it really difficult
for me to figure out why my scores
aren't as good as Todd's if it keeps
hitting this breakpoint over and over.
But Xcode provides a feature for me
to make that a little bit easier.
I'm going to show the message
bubble here under my breakpoint,
and I'm going to set a
breakpoint condition.
In this case, I happen to know that the
variable that's right here,
current progress,
is a variable that goes between
zero and one as the game progresses.
So what I want to do is I want
to stop the execution of my
app just before it's done.
So we'll say that this breakpoint
should fire when the current
progress is greater than 0.95.
So now you'll note that
when I click continue,
the game should continue to run.
Three Rs, two As, one O.
Thank you.
See,
help from the audience is a good thing.
And so now we can actually go
and continue to play our game.
We can start to pick words.
Come on, guys,
you need to help me out here.
I'm never going to beat Todd this way.
said.
So now-- I want good help, come on.
But now you know that as we get
to the end of our game here,
just about the time the hourglass
is going to get to the bottom,
we hit our break point.
Now, OK, 3 is certainly not going
to beat Todd's score here.
What we can do, though,
is go and inspect the value.
And yep, here it is.
Current progress is greater than 0.95.
But if I change that value
in the tool tip to 0,
and I continue, you'll note that the
hourglass is now back up to 0.
And we can start continuing on to pick
some more words and to try and beat Todd.
OK, yeah, yeah, we can beat Todd,
we know.
So you can see it's very easy to set up
debugging and work with the simulator
to rapidly work with your application
and to test out your interface.
But I can tell you from
personal experience,
running the simulator is great.
But running it on an iPhone is amazing.
There's something really,
really special about having your app
running in the palm of your hand.
And the tools make it really,
really easy to do that.
I'm going to quit the application in
the simulator here for just a second,
and we're going to go back to the
overview pop-up and pick device.
So we'll pick this and
click build and go.
So just like that,
we are now going to bring
up two displays here,
and I have this iPhone
connected to this machine.
So Xcode is now building
this application,
signing it,
transmitting it over to the device.
It's installing it.
It's going to run it,
then set up some debugging services
and connect Xcode to my running app.
And so here we go.
Here's baffle touch on the device.
So we'll click New.
Of course,
you want to put in great features.
So to shake, what would you do?
Shake the device.
And so there, the device starts up.
And now we can start playing the game.
So we can get great words like the, set,
net.
So you can start to test
how your interface functions
responding to touch events.
and the rest of the team.
- And set a break point here.
I know, you can see where this is going.
So we'll hover over the
score here and let's see.
Size of audience, lights,
performing in front of audience.
237.
So now you watch on the right
hand side as we continue.
Our game ends and there's
our high score of 237.
So albeit that this demonstration
is somewhat whimsical,
there's a very,
very important takeaway here,
which is in a very few
short number of minutes,
I took some source code I already
had from a previous project,
created an iPhone project,
put together an interface,
connected it up to the
underlying source code,
I tested it in the simulator,
set up some debugging,
deployed it to the phone,
and then also interacted live
with it on the phone to get and
set different values without ever
leaving my source code editor.
And it's that kind of power of allowing
the tools to focus on the process
and allowing you guys to focus on the
product that makes the solution really,
really great.
But wait, there's more.
If we go back to our tools for a moment,
in addition to using the
debugger with the iPhone,
we can also use some additional
tools to get some information.
So I'm going to go up under the window
menu and pull down the organizer.
Now, the organizer is the window
and the element of Xcode that
provides you access to the device
that's connected to this machine.
We can see I have the device
here selected on the left,
and the summary tab shows
me some basic information.
Serial number, name of the unit,
stuff like that.
Also down here,
we can see the application
I've installed.
There's baffle touch already installed.
Across the top are some tabs
that provide useful features.
For example, here's console,
which is analogous to the
system console on Mac OS X.
We can see any output
that we might need there.
Crash logs, not that these ever happen,
would appear here if you
wanted to take a look at them.
But the fourth tab over
here is screenshot.
And screenshot is a really,
really great feature that
allows you to do exactly that.
Take a screenshot of what's ever running
on your phone at any moment in time.
So this is great for documentation,
adding stuff to user guides,
taking screenshots of pictures
to show to QA or engineering
when stuff's not going right.
In this case, I can click capture,
and I can preserve in perpetuity my
wonderful score for this particular game.
And even better,
I can click the save as default
image and select my current image.
So I can save my current project.
And you'll see that Xcode
automatically adds it to my project
and sets that as the default image
for my application on startup.
So now every time
Todd runs this application,
he will know who's the best.
So let's go back to the
organizer for a second.
And I mentioned before there's
the application section
down here at the bottom.
If I expand the application,
we can see that there's an element
beneath it called application data.
Now because we're deploying
our application to the device,
it means it's kind of at arm's length.
And for things like output and stuff,
you may have your application
generate while it's on the phone.
Those are really important
elements for your debugging.
And Xcode allows you
to get access to those.
So I can select this item here,
and we'll call this baffle-content.
And Xcode is going to
download that content from the
iPhone onto my desktop here.
We also handily put it in the organizer.
And if I expand this,
we can see here's my documents,
and here's the game history file.
So this is the history that's
been generated by the game
as we're playing all along.
Now you may actually note the
scroller for this is pretty small.
This file is actually pretty big,
and it looks like we're
logging a lot of stuff.
And on the iPhone,
this may be causing a performance
problem while I'm running my app.
map.
Let's figure out if it is
by running instruments.
So I will quit the running app.
I'll go under the Run menu and
select Start with Performance Tool.
And this time,
I'm going to pick System Usage.
So by selecting this,
Instruments will come up on my Mac here,
and it's going to launch my
application on the iPhone.
Now I'm just going to play this for you,
and I'm not going to worry about
beating Todd's score anymore.
I'm just going to start selecting words.
But if you watch the track view
at the very top of the screen,
you'll note that as I select
different words here,
you'll start to see
different kinds of output.
And this is outputs that
Instruments is checking and
recording while my application
is running here on the device.
So as I pick here,
pick some more and more words,
that should be enough for now.
We can stop this.
And you may be sitting
there in the back going,
yeah, that doesn't look like
that's all that much.
Well, what we can do is give ourselves a
little more real estate and expand this.
And you can start to see that
although the peaks aren't as high
as you might expect for a really,
really bad problem,
the trough is actually pretty wide.
And there's actually a lot
of reads and writes going on.
I can scrub through, just like Todd did,
and pick any particular event.
And we see down here at the bottom,
for those who are close enough,
there's a lot of opens and closes.
It looks like we're actually opening
and closing the log file every time
rather than opening and appending to it.
I can expose my stack frame view.
I can go back to my view
here and look at it.
And sure enough, I can pick an element.
And we see, yep, here it is.
We are logging to the file, in fact,
quite a bit in this method.
So the solution here would probably be to
make this a debug flag or turn down the
logging until we know we have a problem.
But just like that,
all the same techniques that Todd used
for building a Cocoa application,
you guys can use for building
an iPhone application.
And whether you test it in the
simulator or you test it on an iPhone,
I bet you'll have fun doing it.
Thank you, Matt.
So what you saw in this demo is that
developing a Cocoa Touch application
for the iPhone is just like developing
a Cocoa application for the Mac.
Use the same tools, the same workflows,
the same concepts and paradigms.
And often, you can even share code
between applications.
Now we have added one tool
that is specific to the iPhone,
and that's the iPhone Simulator.
The iPhone Simulator runs
natively on your Mac.
It is an application that runs the iPhone
OS frameworks compiled for your Mac.
So it is not an emulator,
but it is a Mac-specific,
fast implementation of the
Cocoa Touch frameworks that give
you access to the same APIs that
you have available on the device.
It makes it a very convenient
testing and debugging tool,
with very fast turnaround times.
Now, while the iPhone simulator is a huge
convenience and a great time saver,
we've also made it as easy to run your
applications natively on the iPhone,
so that you can experience
them on the touchscreen,
and so that you can study
performance in a real-world scenario.
The Mac and the iPhone
really have a lot in common.
In fact,
if you bring up this diagram that we
had on the slides a few minutes ago,
then we will see that much of the
software stack is actually the same.
The tools are the same.
Many of the underlying frameworks
in both OSs are the same.
The programming languages are the same.
Pretty much the entire
programming model is the same.
The one thing that's different
is the hardware underneath.
And that, of course,
has some implications for
you that I'd like to go over.
Let me start out by pointing
out a few capabilities that
are specific to the iPhone.
The iPhone is always connected.
It's always live in the Internet.
It's also location-aware.
And it has a few sensors that
a Mac doesn't necessarily have.
It has an accelerometer,
and it's guaranteed to have a camera.
So new capabilities always means
new opportunities for you guys to
come up with new creative ideas.
And we are very much looking
forward to seeing your applications.
Of course,
the iPhone also has a touchscreen
and a very small form factor.
That's something that you
need to design for explicitly.
You need to design user interfaces
that use few controls at a time,
and that are easily operated by
a human finger instead of the
precise tip of a mouse pointer.
You will also want to consider
supporting two form factors for the two
different rotation angles of the iPhone.
Now the iPhone is really
a very compact device.
It is designed to fit in your pocket.
And in fact,
if you hold it side by side with a Mac,
you will find that an iPhone is
smaller than some of the graphics
cards you can put in a Mac nowadays.
So while the iPhone is an exceptionally
powerful device for a small mobile phone,
a Mac clearly has more power to burn.
And what that means for you is
that you need to become good
friends with instruments and shark.
It is very important that you spend a
lot of time tuning your applications.
You need to monitor your CPU usage,
your memory usage.
You need to make sure you don't
use up too much storage space.
And also very important on the iPhone,
you need to monitor power consumption.
You don't want to burn through the
battery life of your users too quickly.
Now there's one more aspect that's
going to impact development,
and that is security.
So that malicious,
anonymous malicious software
can't run on the iPhone.
The iPhone OS will require every
application to be code signed,
and that's why we created
the iPhone Developer Program.
In addition to the actual tools,
you need two more things from
Apple before you can start
developing natively for the iPhone.
One is a signing certificate,
which will clearly identify you as
the author of your own applications.
The other one is what we
call a provisioning profile,
which you will install on your
iPhones with the help of Xcode.
The provisioning profile authorizes
you to run pre-release versions
of your applications on your
own devices during development.
So let's look at that
in a little more detail.
Let's take a look behind the scenes.
And a good way to do that is to
actually take a look at the actions
and events that take place when you
press the Build and Go button in Xcode.
So as the name kind of implies,
there are two parts to this action.
The first part,
Xcode will build your project,
will compile all your sources,
and will build your application bundle.
The second part,
it will ask the OS to launch
your application for you.
And if you would be
developing a Mac application,
that's really all there is to it.
But if you develop an application
for the iPhone and you want to
run it natively on the iPhone,
well, then you pretty much have to start
your application on a remote computer.
There are also these security
considerations I just mentioned.
So when we launch an
application on the iPhone,
there are a few steps in between.
And while the tools conveniently
hide all these steps for you
and make it very easy for you,
it's still important to
understand what's going on.
So let's say we open a project
in Xcode and we build it.
Then Xcode will create your
application bundle locally on your Mac.
And at the end of the build process,
it will immediately
sign your application.
For that, it will take a look in your
key chain and find the signing
certificate that we provided you with.
And it will use that certificate to apply
your signature to the application bundle.
And then Xcode will find
your device on the USB bus.
Now the iPhone is the home of
a very important kind of guy.
And for the purposes
of this presentation,
we call him the bouncer.
So the role of the bouncer is
to watch over security and make
sure that nothing goes wrong
during the installation process.
So what will happen is that
Xcode will knock on the door of
the bouncer in a friendly way.
It will ask it for some
help with the heavy lifting,
which is to copy the application
over from your Mac to the iPhone,
just like iTunes would upload
a song over the USB cable.
And the bouncer will then do
what every good bouncer does,
which is check your ID.
So it will compare your application
signature with what's specified
in the provisioning profile that
you installed on your phone.
And assuming that it matches,
the bouncer will let
the application come in.
It will allow the
installation to proceed.
Now he's a smart kind of guy,
and he knows if your application
has been run on your device before.
If it has,
it would be so kind to preserve
the application's user data.
So while uploading an application,
we will preserve the user
state of a previous run.
And then Xcode will ask the
bouncer for one more favor,
which is to launch a bunch of
device-side services that Xcode
needs to control your application.
And once that's done,
you fortunately don't have to
talk to the bouncer anymore,
but Xcode can launch your application
and it can attach to the bugger.
So by launching an application
on a remote secure device,
it's relatively involved.
The tools that we ship
make it very easy for use.
That for you, it's just build and go,
just like you saw in the
demo that Matt gave you.
So that's the iPhone SDK.
It contains everything that
you need to develop great
applications for your iPhones.
But there's one thing that
we haven't talked about yet,
and that is the web.
So while the iPhone SDK clearly
is the best way to get the
most out of your iPhones,
we do realize that sometimes
it makes sense for you to
develop a web application.
Web applications have a few advantages.
Among other things,
they don't have any client-side
installation requirements.
They also make it very easy to hook
into back-end enterprise servers.
And so we wanted to support creation
of web applications as well.
And that's why we extended Xcode,
so that you can not only develop
widgets that run on Mac S10,
but also full-featured web
applications that run directly
in Safari on your iPhone.
Let's show you that, too.
For our last demo for today,
I'd like to ask Max Drukman to come
up on stage and show you how to
build an iPhone web application.
Thank you, Andreas.
Good afternoon, everybody.
Now, can we switch the demo machine,
please?
Before I get started with my demo,
I want to answer a question that's been
on a lot of people's minds these days,
and that is, who's that guy?
That, my friends,
is WWDC superstar Dave Payne.
Yeah, that's right.
Let it out.
Now, Dave Payne knows everything
there is to know about WWDC.
He practically invented it.
In fact, when I find myself towards
the end of a session,
like now-ish, wondering which session
I'm going to go to next,
and I'm confused by
all the great choices,
I stop and I ask myself,
where would Dave go?
And that helps me make my decision.
Now, I need a little bit more than that,
though.
I need to know what's next.
So I thought I'd create a dashcode
iPhone web app to show me exactly that,
what's next.
Let's have a look at it.
So now as Andreas mentioned,
Dash Code 2 now does for iPhone web
apps what it's always done for widgets.
In other words,
make them fun and easy to build.
So in addition to all of the
widget templates you expect,
we now have web application
templates as well.
I'm going to choose the browser
template and create a new project.
Now,
one of the great things about Dashcode
templates is that they come ready to run.
That means you can put
them through their paces,
see how they look, feel,
and behave before you customize them.
And that's exactly what I'm going to do.
This is probably going to
start looking familiar,
but I'm going to hit the Run button,
and up comes, of course,
the iPhone simulator.
Now, in this case,
we're running in the Safari browser,
and you'll see we have a single
list browser that is U.S.
National Parks.
Each row is one park.
If I click on one of the rows,
the browser navigates
down to a detail level.
That's pretty simple.
It's the basics of a browser.
There's a Back button to take me back.
That's pretty much it.
And that's great,
because that's exactly what I want
to start with for my web app.
I'm going to close the
iPhone simulator now.
And before I delve in,
I just want to orient you
to the Dashcode interface.
It's pretty simple.
Right up here, front and center,
is the canvas where you lay out the
user interface of your projects.
To the left of the
canvas is the Navigator,
which allows you access to
the hierarchy of objects,
or the DOM in web parlance,
of your project.
And there are some important
editing contexts there as well.
Immediately below the Navigator
is the Workflow Steps view.
Now, the Workflow Steps view
provides you template-specific
workflow guidance and help.
It's built right into Dashcode.
It's really useful.
But you've got me today,
so I'm going to close it.
We're not going to need it.
So now,
if you remember when we ran my project,
each row of our list was a national park.
When I'm done with it, though,
I want each row to be a WWDC session
so that I can make my choice
about exactly where Dave's going.
So,
session title names get a little long.
So the first thing I want to do is
just start working with this list,
and I'm going to make sure that each
row can display two lines of text.
So I'm going to just grab it in
the canvas and start moving around.
So you'll notice now that as
I edit the one in the top row,
all of the other rows are changing, too.
That's because the top row
is acting as a template,
and any design changes I make to the top
row will be reflected in the other rows.
Now, I'm also going to change the
type around a little bit by
bringing up the inspector.
I'm going to make the
text a little bit smaller,
16 pixels seems good.
And because it's two lines,
I want to make sure that
text wrapping is on.
There, I'm pretty much good to go.
Now, you'll notice I left myself some
space to the left of that text,
and that's because I want to add an icon.
Every session here at WWDC has a track,
and I want to use an
icon to portray that.
So I have an icon right here.
This represents the
Mac-specific sessions.
Now, again,
I dragged it into the top row,
and it's reflected in all the others.
Now,
I've also just dragged in a static image.
If I don't do anything in code with that,
it's going to display a Mac icon
next to every row in the list,
but my code's going to
know where to find it,
so it can change it out for the
exact right icon when I run.
So I'm pretty much done with this level.
Let me have a look at the detail level.
So we saw this running again.
It's pretty simple.
There's title, location, and description.
That's exactly what
I need for my project.
But I want to highlight
the location a little bit.
Because remember,
we're trying to figure out
where to go here at WWDC.
And it's very important to know
exactly where Dave's going.
So I'm going to highlight that
location by adding another element.
I'm going to do that by
bringing up the library.
And
Finding a rounded box.
And I'm simply going to add it
to this level and position it.
Dashcode gives me guidelines to
put it exactly where I want it.
And now what I want to do
is grab this location type,
and I want to put it in the box.
And I can do that simply by
dragging it in the navigator.
And now I've reparented it.
So now whenever that box moves around,
the type's going to move with it.
Pretty simple.
Now I'll just style it exactly as I want,
make sure it's not right
up against the edge.
And I don't know, I'll make it bold.
So now it stands out a little bit better.
So I've customized the two
levels that came with my browser,
but now I want to go the extra
mile and add some more stuff.
And the way I do that is
here in the stack layout.
Now, the stack layout is a powerful new
part in Dashcode that allows you
to have multiple views that you
can swap between with animations.
So that's really the driver
of the browser that we saw
working in the simulator.
I'm going to go now to
the attributes inspector,
and we see here are my
levels that already exist,
list and detail.
And I'm going to add two more.
I want to add a home level.
This will be the level that I see
when I first run my web application.
And I want to add a map level,
because I have some Moscone Center floor
maps that I want to be able to look
at so I can really track Dave down.
Now,
next thing I'm going to do is simply drag
the home level to the top of the list,
and that means it's first.
As I said, I want it to be first,
and now I'm going to
customize it a little bit.
So in the home level,
I'm going to go to the
Fill and Stroke Inspector now,
and I'm going to make it black
so it's all kind of iPhone shiny.
And now I'm going to add a graphic.
After all, it's all about Dave.
So I just position
Dave exactly where I want him.
And while I'm here,
I guess I'll probably change
the name of this browser.
Browser's pretty descriptive,
but not very exciting.
I'm going to call this Hey Dave.
Now,
one last thing I want to do this level,
I want to add a button,
because I want my iPhone web app
to come up just like that and give
me a button that I can press on to
see the list of the next sessions.
That's easy enough to do by
going back to the library,
and this time I'm going
to grab a push button.
Now I can lay this out just like
I do any other element in Dashcode,
and I'm going to change
the text here as well.
I'm going to call this "Where To."
So now I've got my button.
It doesn't do anything
yet because I haven't told
Dashcode what I want it to do,
but that's pretty easy to do too.
I'm going to go now to
the Behaviors Inspector.
Now in the Behaviors Inspector,
I can wire up JavaScript events that
this object can listen to and create code
that will make it do what I want it to.
In this case,
I'm going to give it a handler,
go to list, because that's exactly
what I want it to do.
Now when I hit return,
Dashcode is going to create that
for me because it doesn't exist yet.
And not only that,
it brings up the source code view,
scrolls it down,
and shows me exactly where I need to
start adding my code to make this work.
Now, you don't want to watch me type.
I don't want to type either.
So I'm going to show off another
feature of the Dashcode library,
and that is code snippets.
Dashcode comes with dozens
and dozens of code snippets.
And you can add little bits of
JavaScript that you can add to your
projects to extend their functionality.
Plus, you can save your own.
I just happen to have one
right here called go to list,
and that's the body of that function.
Now, while I'm hearing the code,
I think I'll do a little bit more.
Let's see.
So I'm going to get rid of that
and maybe change this a little bit.
And well, all right,
I'm going to get rid of all of it.
Because I have a big old snippet
that I'll just drag in right there.
Now, just because I swapped in all the
code doesn't mean that I didn't
stay with the pattern that
the template brought with me.
It's just going to take too long
for me to show you everything I did.
One thing I do want to point out, though,
my very first function here,
list controller,
for you Cocoa programmers,
this might be familiar to you,
Dashcode is bringing the
MVC code pattern to JavaScript.
So we want to be able to get everybody
into the way of thinking that views
have controllers just like in Cocoa.
So now I'm getting
pretty darn close here.
I've got my button.
Now,
you'll remember I created a map level,
but I don't have anything on there yet.
I'm going to do just
like I did on the list.
I'm going to drag in an image.
Here's a Moscone floor map that
highlights the Haight-Ashbury room,
which is downstairs, I believe.
And again, it's a static image,
but my code is going to
know where to find it,
and it'll swap it out.
Now, the one thing I don't have yet
is a way to get to the map level.
You'll remember that on the detail level,
I called out the location.
So I figure as long as that box is
telling me what the location is,
I might as well be able to
poke on it and see the map,
right?
So I'm going to turn that
box into a button as well.
And that's easy enough to do by
simply wiring up the onClick event.
In this case,
I'm going to call it GoToMap.
Now, if you notice,
Dashcode is now auto-completing GoToMap.
Now, GoToMap was part of that big
hunk of code that I dragged in.
But as soon as it was there,
Dashcode made it immediately
available for me to wire up to,
and code completes to it.
So now when I hit return,
instead of creating a new function,
it's simply wiring up to
that existing function.
All right,
I swear we're getting close here.
Dave must be around here somewhere.
So what I need to do now is,
you remember I dragged
in one icon and one map.
Now I just need all the rest of those
so I don't get any missing images.
I have those right here.
Here are the rest of my
icons and all my maps.
I'm going to simply drag them from
the Finder into the Images view.
Now,
the images view is in the files view,
and that shows all of the
files of your project.
There's one more file I need,
and that is my data source.
And it's a JSON file,
which is a type of XML pretty
common on the web these days,
and that just has all
of the sessions in it.
So my code knows where
to go to find that,
and we're going to display our sessions.
So, who wants to bet that this will work?
Anybody?
Probably not.
Let's hit run, see what happens.
So there we go.
Now I'm running in the simulator again.
There's Dave.
I'm going to ask the age-old question.
There we go.
Here are our sessions.
Those are the sessions that are
coming up immediately after this one.
Now,
I know that Dave is secretly an IT guy.
And so I think he's going to
want to go to the getting started
with Mac OS X administration.
Sorry, Dave, if you're here.
I didn't mean to out you,
but what are you going to do?
So that's in the Nob Hill room,
and there's my map to it.
OK, so you know-- There, it works.
Now, I have to say, though,
that was too easy.
I don't think I even had
to ask where Dave would go,
since I know he's a closet IT guy.
But what happens tomorrow or the
rest of the week when there are
a lot more sessions going on?
I have my work cut out for me.
I'm not sure if I'm going
to be able to do it.
Luckily, I can test it in Dashcode.
I don't have to wait
till tomorrow to see it.
I'm going to use a feature of
the Dashcode Debugger now to
change the date so I can see what
things will look like tomorrow.
Now, the Dashcode Debugger is a
full-on JavaScript debugger,
lets you set breakpoints,
pause and resume your code.
You can evaluate your variables,
check your stack frames,
all kinds of interesting stuff,
including use a JavaScript evaluator.
Now, the evaluator is a full-running
console that allows you to interact
with your code while it's running.
Now, I'm going to drag one last
thing now from the library,
and that is my reload sessions.
Now, reload sessions is my function
that goes and fetches the
data and populates the list.
But now I'm just going to pass it
a parameter of tomorrow so I can
see what I've got cut out for me.
Hit return, and now you see, well,
that's going to--
That's not going to be easy at all.
There's two IT sessions, for one thing.
That's going to be tricky.
Now, even more tricky is, well,
how am I even going to do this tomorrow?
I've got my iPhone web app
here running in the simulator,
but I want to have it
in my phone with me.
That means what I want to do
is I want to take this project,
I want to deploy it to a web
server so that I can hit it over
the air no matter where I am.
Now, luckily, of course,
I'll bet you can guess,
Dashcode makes that easy, too.
So now if I go to share,
I can tell Dashcode where
I want this project deployed.
So I'm going to send it over to a web
server that is going to know where to
pick up the files and send them to my
phone so I can hit them in the browser.
Now, Dashcode allows you to save them to
servers that use the WebDAV protocol.
You can save it to your .mac,
or is it .me now?
I don't know.
You can save it to your .mac account.
Or in this case,
I'm just saving it to local host.
So that's the web server
that runs on this machine.
It's the web server that
comes with every Mac.
I'm just going to make sure
it's named the right thing,
WWDG,
and I'm going to click the deploy button.
So that went by really quick.
There's not much data in my project,
and of course, I'm deploying it locally.
So that went really probably
faster than many of you could see.
Let's see if it made it.
So now on my device,
when I bring up the Safari browser,
Let's make sure that we
have a nice clean page.
And I have a bookmark right
here that I made earlier,
just a bookmark,
and let's see it live and running.
All right, there's Dave.
So now tomorrow I'll be able to ask.
It's, of course,
telling us what's going on today.
There's my detail.
There's my map.
All working right over the air.
So there you saw it.
Dash code from end to end,
getting you started with great templates,
allowing you to very easily
extend the user interface and
the code of your projects,
and even going as far as
deploying it to your web server.
So the whole thing from Dash code.
Thank you.
Andreas?
Thank you, Max.
So Dashcode allows you to build some
great web applications for your iPhone
that feel just like native applications.
It covers the entire process-- design,
simulation, debugging,
and even deployment.
The new Dashcode also knows
everything there is to know
about Safari on the iPhone.
When you actually simulate an
application from within Dashcode,
it will start the iPhone simulator,
so that you can test your application
in the mobile version of Safari.
It also knows how to hook into the
hardware-accelerated transitions and
animations that we saw in the demo.
It knows about viewport options
that determine the scaling factor
when you rotate the device,
and it has a home screen icon editor.
Dashcode really is a
full-featured web IDE,
and as you kind of saw,
it's a lot of fun to use.
Thank you.
So here are our four
major tools one more time.
All of these tools now support
creating applications for
both the Mac and the iPhone.
And that's, of course,
a huge opportunity for you guys.
Learning about the tools and APIs of
one of the platforms means that you
automatically learn about the tools
and APIs of the other platform as well,
which enables you to develop for two
of the fastest growing and two of the
most exciting platforms in the world.